added some contributions guide (#2723)
JuliaData/DataFrames.jl: CONTRIBUTING.md

  (`Pkg.add(name="DataFrames", rev="main")`) is a good gut check and can streamline the process,
  along with including the first two lines of output from `versioninfo()`

## Modifying an existing docstring in `src/`

All docstrings are written inline above the methods or types they are associated with and can be found by clicking on the `source` link that appears below each docstring in the HTML file. The steps needed to make a change to an existing docstring are listed below:

* Find the docstring in `src/`;
* Update the text in the docstring;
* run `make docs` from the root directory;
* check the output in `doc/_build/html/` to make sure the changes are correct;
* commit your changes and open a pull request.

## Adding a new docstring to `src/`

The steps required to add a new docstring are listed below:

> * find a suitable definition in `src/` that thedocstring will be most applicable to;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* find a suitable definition in `src/` that the docstring applies to;
```

* add a doctring above the definition;

> * find a suitable `@docs` code block in one of the `docs/src/` files where you would like the docstring to appear;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* find a suitable `@docs` code block in the `docs/src/lib/functions.md` file where you would like the docstring to appear;
```

> * add the name of the definition to the `@docs` code block. For example, with a docstring added to a function `bar`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* add the name of the definition to the `@docs` code block. For example, with a docstring added to a function `bar`.
```

```
"..."
function bar(args...)
    # ...
end
```

> you would add the name `bar` to a `@docs` block in `docs/src/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you would add the name `bar` to a `@docs` block in `docs/src/lib/functions.md`
```

````
```@docs
foo
bar # <-- Added this one.
baz
```
````

> * run `make docs` from the root directory;

Reviewer: is it indeed? I thought you need to run `julia make.jl` from the `/docs` directory?

Author: Both will work but `julia make.jl` is better. So, i will change it

* check the output in `docs/_build/html` to make sure the changes are correct;
* commit your changes and open a pull request.

## Doctests

> Examples written within docstrings can be used as testcases known as `"doctests"` by annotating code blocks with jldoctest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples written within docstrings can be used as test cases known as *doctests* by annotating code blocks with `jldoctest`.
```

````
```jldoctest
julia> uppercase("Docstring test")
"DOCSTRING TEST"
```
````

> A doctest needs to match an interactive REPL including the julia> prompt. To run doctests you need to run make -C doc doctest=true from the root directory. It is recommended to add the header # Examples above the doctests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A doctest needs to match an interactive REPL including the `julia>` prompt. To run doctests you need to run `make -C doc doctest=true` from the root directory.

It is recommended to add the header `# Examples` above the doctests.
```

Reviewer: is the `make -C doc doctest=true` ineede the command to run?

Author: If someone doesn't want to change `doctest=true` in make.jl

Reviewer: but we have `doctest=true` in make.jl - right?

  (`Pkg.add(name="DataFrames", rev="main")`) is a good gut check and can streamline the process,
  along with including the first two lines of output from `versioninfo()`

## Modifying an existing docstring in `src/`

All docstrings are written inline above the methods or types they are associated with and can

> be found by clicking on the `source` link that appears below each docstring in the HTML file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be found by clicking on the `source` link that appears below each docstring in the documentation.
```

The steps needed to make a change to an existing docstring are listed below:

> * Find the docstring in `src/`;

Reviewer: maybe add step 1. create a new branch?

* Update the text in the docstring;

> * run `make docs` from the root directory;

Reviewer: As discussed - why do you write `make dos`? I would assume `julia --project=docs docs/make.jl` run from the top-level folder of the package? But maybe I am missing something here?

* check the output in `doc/_build/html/` to make sure the changes are correct;
* commit your changes and open a pull request.

## Adding a new docstring to `src/`

The steps required to add a new docstring are listed below:

> * find a suitable definition in `src/` that the docstring will be most applicable to;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* find a suitable function or type definition in `src/` that the docstring
  will be most applicable to;
```

* add a doctring above the definition;
* find a suitable `@docs` code block in the `docs/src/lib/functions.md` file where you 

>   would like the docstring to appear;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  would like the docstring to appear; (if the docstring is added
  to an object that is not exported add it to `docs/src/lib/internals.md`);
```

* add the name of the definition to the `@docs` code block. For example, with a docstring
  added to a function `bar`.
```
"..."
function bar(args...)
    # ...
end
```

you would add the name `bar` to a `@docs` block in `docs/src/lib/functions.md`
````
```@docs
foo
bar # <-- Added this one.
baz
```
````

* run `julia make.jl` from the `/docs` directory;
* check the output in `docs/_build/html` to make sure the changes are correct;

> * commit your changes and open a pull request.

Reviewer: maybe add below an example of preferred style of docstring, i.e.:

1. signature
2. what function does
3. description of its arguments
4. additional details if needed
5. examples

Author: You want me to add an example here or I have to just write these lines?

Reviewer: whatever you would feel would be more useful for a new contributor.

## Doctests

Examples written within docstrings can be used as test cases known as *doctests* by annotating code 
blocks with `jldoctest`.
````
```jldoctest
julia> uppercase("Docstring test")
"DOCSTRING TEST"
```
````
A doctest needs to match an interactive REPL including the `julia>` prompt. To run doctests you need

> to make `doctest=true` inside the `docs/make.jl` directory and run `julia make.jl` from the `/docs` directory.

Reviewer: as commented `doctest=true` is already set so I think there is no need to mention that.

  (`Pkg.add(name="DataFrames", rev="main")`) is a good gut check and can streamline the process,
  along with including the first two lines of output from `versioninfo()`

## Modifying an existing docstring in `src/`

All docstrings are written inline above the methods or types they are associated with and can
be found by clicking on the `source` link that appears below each docstring in the documentation.
The steps needed to make a change to an existing docstring are listed below:

* Create a new branch;
* Find the docstring in `src/`;
* Update the text in the docstring;
* run `julia make.jl` from the `/docs` directory;
* check the output in `doc/_build/html/` to make sure the changes are correct;
* commit your changes and open a pull request.

> * preferred style of docstring, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a preferred structure of docstring is:
```

>   + signature
>   + what function does
>   + description of its arguments
>   + additional details if needed
>   + examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  + list of accepted signatures;
  + a short information what function does;
  + description of its arguments;
  + additional details if needed;
  + examples.
```

## Adding a new docstring to `src/`

The steps required to add a new docstring are listed below:
* find a suitable object definition in `src/` that the docstring
  will be most applicable to;
* add a doctring above the definition;
* find a suitable `@docs` code block in the `docs/src/lib/functions.md` file 
  where you would like the docstring to appear; (if the docstring is added
  to an object that is not exported add it to `docs/src/lib/internals.md`);
* add the name of the definition to the `@docs` code block. For example, with a docstring
  added to a function `bar`.
```
"..."
function bar(args...)
    # ...
end
```

you would add the name `bar` to a `@docs` block in `docs/src/lib/functions.md`
````
```@docs
foo
bar # <-- Added this one.
baz
```
````

* run `julia make.jl` from the `/docs` directory;
* check the output in `docs/_build/html` to make sure the changes are correct;
* commit your changes and open a pull request.

## Doctests

Examples written within docstrings can be used as test cases known as *doctests* by annotating code 

> blocks with `jldoctest`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blocks with `jldoctest`:
```

  rather than `[1., 2.]`
* In docstrings, optional arguments, including separators and spaces, are surrounded by brackets,
  e.g. `mymethod(required[, optional1[, optional2] ]; kwargs...)`

## Git Recommendations For Pull Requests

> * Avoid working from the `main` branch of your fork, creating a new branch will make it easier if DataFrame's `main` branch changes and you need to update your pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Avoid working from the `main` branch of your fork, creating a new branch will make it easier if DataFrame.jl `main` branch changes and you need to update your pull request.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Try to [squash](http://gitready.com/advanced/2009/02/10/squashing-commits-with-rebase.html) together small commits that make repeated changes to the same section of code so your pull request is easier to review, and DataFrame's won't have any broken intermediate commits. A reasonable number of separate well-factored commits is fine, especially for larger changes.

Reviewer: there is no need to do it - we will squash the PR when merging it anyway. The request is rather: run tests of your code before sending any commit to GitHub. Only push changes when the tests of the change are passing locally.

The point is that if you send e.g. 10 commits to GitHub in one push operation it is not a problem as CI will be run only once then.

> * If any conflicts arise due to changes in DataFrame's `main` branch, prefer updating your pull request branch with `git rebase` versus `git merge` or `git pull`, since the latter will introduce merge commits that clutter the git history with noise that makes your changes more difficult to review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If any conflicts arise due to changes in DataFrame.jl `main` branch, prefer updating your pull request branch with `git rebase` (rather than `git merge`), since the latter will introduce a merge commit that might confuse GitHub when displaying the diff of your PR, which makes your changes more difficult to review. Alternatively use conflict resolution tool available at GitHub.
```

> * Descriptive commit messages are good.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Please try to use descriptive commit messages to simplify the review process.
```

* Using `git add -p` or `git add -i` can be useful to avoid accidently committing unrelated changes.

> * GitHub does not send notifications when you push a new commit to pull request, so please add a comment to the pull request thread to let reviewers know when you've made changes.

Reviewer: It is not needed. Maintainers get notified of all changes in the repository. However, what is useful is writing a short message after a sequence of changes is made summarizing what has changed and that the PR is ready for a review.

> * When linking to specific lines of code in discussion of an issue or pull request, hit the `y` key while viewing code on GitHub to reload the page with a URL that includes the specific version that you're viewing. That way any lines of code that you refer to wil still make sense in the future, even if the content of the file changes.

Reviewer: I understand your intention here, but I am not sure I fully understand the recommendation. I.e. when I kit `y` key nothing happens.

Author: It happens when you select some code of any file and then hit the `y` key: let's say I select the first 4 lines of [core.jl](https://github.com/JuliaData/DataFrames.jl/tree/main/src/join) then after selection url will look like this: https://github.com/JuliaData/DataFrames.jl/blob/a671a3b86537a253d461ff54b87ae2c26e4e8a04/src/join/core.jl
and before selection:
https://github.com/JuliaData/DataFrames.jl/tree/main/src/join

* Whitespace can be automatically removed from existing commits with `git rebase`.
   + To remove whitespace for the previous commit, run `git rebase --whitespace=fix HEAD~1`.

>    + To remove whtespace relative to the `main` branch, run `git rebase --whitespace=fix main`.

Reviewer: I would rather write:
1. please make sure you follow the code formatting guidelines when submitting a PR
2. in particular do not remove whitespace in parts of code that you are not editing as this makes reviewing the PR harder (I regularly do code cleanup anyway)
3. (and note that in some doctests actually whitespace might be relevant and it should not be removed) - this is the case in multiline (triple-quoted) strings. Therefore using single quoted strings with an explicit `"\n"` and joined with `*` across multiple lines should be done in such cases.

  rather than `[1., 2.]`
* In docstrings, optional arguments, including separators and spaces, are surrounded by brackets,
  e.g. `mymethod(required[, optional1[, optional2] ]; kwargs...)`

## Git Recommendations For Pull Requests

* Avoid working from the `main` branch of your fork, creating a new branch will make it
  easier if DataFrame.jl `main` branch changes and you need to update your pull request;

> * All PRs and issues should be made against the main branch not against the current release;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All PRs and issues should be opened against the `main` branch not against the current release;
```

> * You can avoid `squash` because we will squash the PR when merging it anyway. The request is
>   rather: `run tests` of your code before sending any commit to GitHub. Only push changes when 
>   the tests of the change are passing locally. The point is that if you send e.g. 10 commits to 
>   GitHub in one push operation it is not a problem as CI will be run only once then;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Run tests of your code before sending any commit to GitHub. Only push changes when 
  the tests of the change are passing locally. In particular note that it is not a problem
  if you send several commits in one push command to GitHub as CI will be run only once then;
```

* If any conflicts arise due to changes in DataFrame.jl `main` branch, prefer updating your pull
  request branch with `git rebase` (rather than `git merge`), since the latter will introduce a merge 
  commit that might confuse GitHub when displaying the diff of your PR, which makes your changes more 
  difficult to review. Alternatively use conflict resolution tool available at GitHub;
* Please try to use descriptive commit messages to simplify the review process;
* Using `git add -p` or `git add -i` can be useful to avoid accidently committing unrelated changes;

> * Maintainers get notified of all changes in the repository. However, what is useful is writing a short

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Maintainers get notified of all changes made on GitHub. However, what is useful is writing a short
```

  message after a sequence of changes is made summarizing what has changed and that the PR is ready
  for a review;
* When linking to specific lines of code in discussion of an issue or pull request, hit the `y` key

>   while viewing code on GitHub to reload the page with a URL that includes the specific version that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  while viewing code on GitHub to reload the page with a URL that includes the specific commit that 
```

>   you're viewing. That way any lines of code that you refer to wil still make sense in the future, even 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  you're viewing. That way any lines of code that you refer to will still be correct in the future, even 
```

>   if the content of the file changes;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if additional commits are pushed to the branch you are reviewing;
```

> * Whitespace can be automatically removed from existing commits with `git rebase`;
>    + please make sure you follow the code formatting guidelines when submitting a PR
>    + in particular do not remove whitespace in parts of code that you are not editing as this makes reviewing 
>      the PR harder (I regularly do code cleanup anyway
>    + (and note that in some doctests actually whitespace might be relevant and it should not be removed) - this
>      is the case in multiline (triple-quoted) strings. Therefore using single quoted strings with an explicit
>      `"\n"` and joined with `*` across multiple lines should be done in such cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Please make sure you follow the code formatting guidelines when submitting a PR;
  However, preferably do not modify parts of code that you are not editing as this makes
  reviewing the PR harder (it is better to open a separate maintenance PR
  if e.g. code layout can be improved);
```

> * If a PR is not finished yet and SHOULD NOT be reviewed yet then it should be opened as DRAFT 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If a PR is not finished yet and should not be reviewed yet then it should be opened as DRAFT 
```

>   (in this way reviewer will know that they can ignore such PR until it is made non-draft or the author asks for a review).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (in this way maintainers will know that they can ignore such PR until it is made non-draft or the author asks for a review).
```

## Git Recommendations For Pull Requests

* Avoid working from the `main` branch of your fork, creating a new branch will make it

>  easier if DataFrame.jl `main` branch changes and you need to update your pull request;

Reviewer: wrong alignment here and below (one space is missing in the front)

  rather than `[1., 2.]`
* In docstrings, optional arguments, including separators and spaces, are surrounded by brackets,
  e.g. `mymethod(required[, optional1[, optional2] ]; kwargs...)`

## Git Recommendations For Pull Requests

* Avoid working from the `main` branch of your fork, creating a new branch will make it

>   easier if DataFrame.jl `main` branch changes and you need to update your pull request;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  easier if DataFrames.jl `main` branch changes and you need to update your pull request;
```

* All PRs and issues should be opened against the `main` branch not against the current release;
* Run tests of your code before sending any commit to GitHub. Only push changes when 
  the tests of the change are passing locally. In particular note that it is not a problem
  if you send several commits in one push command to GitHub as CI will be run only once then;

> * If any conflicts arise due to changes in DataFrame.jl `main` branch, prefer updating your pull

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If any conflicts arise due to changes in DataFrames.jl `main` branch, prefer updating your pull
```

  request branch with `git rebase` (rather than `git merge`), since the latter will introduce a merge 
  commit that might confuse GitHub when displaying the diff of your PR, which makes your changes more 
  difficult to review. Alternatively use conflict resolution tool available at GitHub;
* Please try to use descriptive commit messages to simplify the review process;
* Using `git add -p` or `git add -i` can be useful to avoid accidently committing unrelated changes;
* Maintainers get notified of all changes made on GitHub. However, what is useful is writing a short
  message after a sequence of changes is made summarizing what has changed and that the PR is ready
  for a review;
* When linking to specific lines of code in discussion of an issue or pull request, hit the `y` key
  while viewing code on GitHub to reload the page with a URL that includes the specific commit that 
  you're viewing. That way any lines of code that you refer to will still be correct in the future, even 
  if additional commits are pushed to the branch you are reviewing;
* Please make sure you follow the code formatting guidelines when submitting a PR;

>   However, preferably do not modify parts of code that you are not editing as this makes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Also preferably do not modify parts of code that you are not editing as this makes
```
